Initial draft of Projects and Project Details (#3022)
getsentry/sentry-docs: src/docs/product/projects/index.mdx

---
title: Projects
sidebar_order: 1
description: "View all the projects you're a member of, then dive into their details quickly."
---

> A _Project_ connects the error and transaction events in your application to the team members assigned to that project.

Reviewer: A project represents a _service_ or _application_. The examples you give below around backend and frontend illustrate this nicely. Further reasons for creating projects include (not polished language): Controlling access permissions, providing specific privacy and data settings.

Separately, should we mention how projects are different from environments? For example a production vs staging are environments, but not projects.

Author: Good edits. Thanks. I'll incorporate these.

> You can create a project for a particular language or framework, and typically do so when you first start using Sentry, though you can add projects as you need. For example, you might have separate projects for your API server and frontend client. Setting up multiple projects to reflect your application landscape with finer granularity will go a long way in helping with visibility and triage.

Reviewer: To go with the above, I would slightly change language: You create a project _for_ a service and _select_ the platform / language.

Also, when displaying the **Issue Stream** and **Discover** views, the top-level filter bar considers the projects you are a member of by default. This way, you are looking at information that is immediately relevant to your work.

## Project Homepage

The project homepage provides a high-level overview of all your projects, including:

> - All projects of which you're a member

Reviewer: In Sentry, an account can never be a direct member of a project. Instead, you're member of a team which the project is associated to. Projects can be associated to multiple teams. 

Effectively, the page lists projects by the teams you're a member of. Therefore, a project _can_ appear multiple times on this page.

Author: ah, subtle but important. Thanks.

- A snapshot of both errors and transactions

> - Team members for each project

Reviewer: Goes with the comment above: It shows the teams, their members, and the projects.

> - Deploys, if you have configured your SDK to [provide a release identifier](/platform-redirect/?next=/configuration/releases/)

Reviewer: Providing releases is only half of it. Additionally, you have to tell Sentry about the deploys. Unfortunately, we do not have extensive documentation on deploys yet. The best I found was https://docs.sentry.io/product/cli/releases/#creating-deploys.

Author: Ok. I will edit to include deploys as well. 

Should we add a GH issue to track that we need to develop more deploy content?

The projects are displayed in alphabetical order, separated by team. **Note:** For faster access, star your favorites to ensure they display at the top of the page each time you view.

> ## View Project Details

Reviewer: Should we add the early adopters note here, too?

Author: yes. Will do.

---
title: Projects
sidebar_order: 1
description: "View all the projects associated with teams that you're a member of, then dive into their details quickly."
---

<Note>

> This feature is available only if you're in the Early Adopter program. Features available to Early Adopters are still in-progress and may have bugs. We recognize the irony.

Author: Yes, we may want to do that. I'm also looking at how we can better manage our explanation of different feature availability based on plan, which falls into kind of the same bucket.

> <Note>
> 
> This feature is available only if you're in the Early Adopter program. Features available to Early Adopters are still in-progress and may have bugs. We recognize the irony.
> 
> If you’re interested in being an Early Adopter, you can turn your organization’s Early Adopter status on/off in General Settings. This will affect all users in your organization and can be turned back off just as easily.
> 
> </Note>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

When displaying the **Issue Stream** and **Discover** views, the top-level filter bar considers the projects you are a member of by default. This way, you are looking at information that is immediately relevant to your work.

Projects differ from [environments](/product/sentry-basics/environments/), which are designed to help triage issues, especially in a multi-staged release process.

## Project Homepage

The project homepage lists the projects by teams of which you're a member, providing a high-level overview:

- A snapshot of both errors and transactions
- The team and team members associated with each project (remember, projects can be associated to multiple teams, so a project may be listed more than once)
- Deploys, if you have configured your SDK to [provide a release identifier](/platform-redirect/?next=/configuration/releases/) and are tracking [deploys](/product/cli/releases/#creating-deploys)

The projects are displayed in alphabetical order, separated by team. **Note:** For faster access, star your favorites to ensure they display at the top of the page each time you view.

## View Project Details

> Project details combine errors, performance, and health in one central place. The [Project Details](/product/projects/project-details/) page provides a critical overview to developers, product owners, and engineering managers to answer the central question of "What is the project's current state and where do I need to look next?".

Reviewer: Next try:

```suggestion
The [Project Details](/product/projects/project-details/) page provides an overview over errors, performance, and the health of your releases. It allows to quickly correlate spikes in error rates with the issues causing them react to critical alerts, and analyze long-term trends.
```

Author: Suggest the last sentence be "You can use the page to quickly correlate spikes in error rates with the issues causing them, react to critical alerts, and analyze long-term trends.

Reviewer: Added, thanks!
